---
layout: post
title: Carl Sagan's "The Demon-Haunted World"
description: If I was a science teacher and could assign reading it'd be this.
typora-root-url: ../../
---

# Summary

## The Demon-Haunted World

In 1995 Carl Sagan's _The Pale Blue Dot_ was published by Random House. Though
he is not the sole author. Several sections feature Ann Druyan, his wife. In
it, they explain the scientific method, and encourage the reader to analyze
information in a critical and skeptical way.

Each chapter focuses on a particular issue or situation in which the
information being presented may at first prove infallible, but through careful
observation and questioning, begin to show cracks beneath that veneer of truth.
To me, the two most impactful sections of the book lay out the groundwork to
discern for oneself whether something being touted as truth is in fact a
misrepresentation or a flat out lie.

In the book, this method of detection is dubbed the "Baloney Detection Kit". It
is a two-part kit that arms the reader with the tools necessary for skeptical
thinking. The most important part of this kit is to construct a well-reasoned
argument, in which the fallacies of the claim will eventually rise to the
surface. While most of the tools presented are what some would dub as
"common sense", it is often the case that this sense is "not too common". Below
are some examples of the tools as described by the book (emphasis mine):

1. When possible, the facts presented _must_ be able to be independently confirmed
2. If there is a chain in an argument, _every_ link of that chain _must_ be correct
3. Can the given hypothesis be false? If it cannot be falsified _or_ tested, then it is not worth consideration

Even in my daily life I continue to struggle with critical thinking surrounding
the massive sea of information that is the internet. Hundreds if not thousands
of articles are published each day, compounding on top of the hundreds or
thousands more that will correct, rebuke and contradict those that came before.
It is a Sisyphean Task if there ever was one to correctly identify which of
these contain more than even a grain of truth.

## A World That Fears Our Own Shadows

Growing up in a small rural community, the types of issues I dealt with or
heard of were equally small, mostly ranging from how neighbors were behaving or
small public disturbances that happened maybe a few times a year. The facts of
an event could fit in a thirty second soundbite, and most people knew about the
latest local gossip within days of it happening. Unfortunately, this meant that
if you got the story from the wrong person, or if someone felt like buttering
up a particular fact in that news, it wouldn't be completely unheard of for the
same story to shift slowly as it was passed from person to person, sometimes
growing to preposterous proportions. As I came to learn with age, this not only
applied to the local youth disturbing the peace, but it also rang true at the
national news level.

Regardless of beliefs or ideologies, it's not an inaccurate statement to say
that government issues have fundamentally changed in a way that inspires
constant fear or hatred for the "other", whatever that may look like. What used
to originate as colorful comments from the occasional governmental prospects
whose career chances were surely doomed because of it seemed to become the norm
in less than a decade. Gone was the need for civility when simply appealing to
the reactionary side of people could be the foundation of your argument.
Combined with the unfiltered torrent of information that is the modern
internet, little care was necessary to sway crowds to your side with what under
a magnifying lens could only be called an iota of truth.

Fact checking a fire hose such as this, or even attempting to hold the person
handling the hose accountable seems to be an unwinnable battle. To me, the
battle of truth versus lies is like David vs. Goliath, except in this battle it
does not matter who actually triumphs, but whoever appears to have triumphed
from the interaction. In the wake of such blatant lies usually follows the
truth, but without the acceptance of the commons, the truth may as well have
not surfaced at all. For every instance of a crop circle debunked as bored men
with planks of wood and an abundance of free time, there are just as many
people willing to ignore that fact in hopes of a more exciting world.

These issues and more are what I believe the focal point of this novel to be.
When all is said and done, the truth just isn't all that exciting. Real life
rarely mimics fiction, and given the opportunity, most people would rather
believe the lie than accept that fact. When one rises to disprove such a lie,
it feels like trying to un-fire a bullet. If this issue was centralized
entirely to harmless things like crop circles or Sasquatch sightings, we could
simply move on with our day or chuckle at the thought.

However, this line of ignorance has permeated into some of the most important
foundations of our society, and the repercussions of it are not being
considered nearly as much as they deserve. As the book highlights, this failing
of critical thinking is visible at all levels of learning, and all walks of
life; and if we cannot learn to teach how to avoid this, or if we ignore it
until the consequences are staring us directly in the face, it could be the
very thing that undoes everything we strive to protect.

## Closing Thoughts

To give some context to my experience of reading this book, I began reading it
in earnest around the beginning of the year. I can recall one chapter with
specific detail, namely because I was reading it while awaiting a jury
selection to begin back in March. My copy's page count is roughly 400, and
while that is certainly not a small read, it proved to be far more difficult
than I originally anticipated.

At times life got in the way, and I simply couldn't find the time. When I did,
I was surprised at how frequently I had to stop and analyze just exactly what
the point of discussion was, and the effects it could have at every scale
previously mentioned. In addition, I found myself stopping to look up entirely
new words to me, as with context alone I found I could not exactly infer their
meanings. It was a book that quite literally taught me something new with
nearly every page.

Not only was my knowledge being challenged with the wordage and impact of the
ideas, but my faith in humanity was as well. Quite often I had to take breaks
from reading the book simply because it would sour my mood near instantly at
times. For a book that was published just a year before my birth, the ideas it
highlighted from the history of the 20th century and the projections made from
those observations were at times so accurate that I felt no other emotions than
embarrassment for our species.

Though demoralizing at times, it did a great deal to imbue me with hope as
well. Regardless of the period in which science takes place, it feels as if it
is incapable of the poisoning of truth that the rest of society has seemed to
become completely diluted by. Sure individual claims may go unopposed for far
longer than they should, but in the end the truth of the science will always
work its way to the surface, much to the dismay of many.

## Additional Ramblings

Throughout the book, I found reason after to reason to recommend it to others.
The only real issue one might find with it as I previously mentioned is the
difficulty of reading at times due to the language it uses, but that doesn't
detract from the message it is trying to send. It's worth just as much of a
recommendation as it was when it was first published, and I hope anyone that
has found this minuscule corner would give it a try sometime. Regardless of
one's passions in life, the ideas laid out by this book should give you food
for thought on quite a few issues. Though those thoughts might be unpleasant at
times, or it forces you to face parts of your nature that you would rather not
look at, for the sake of our race I do hope that you give it a chance.

Apart from that, finishing this book began what I can only describe as an
absolute obsession with reading once again. I decided to stick with mostly
fiction for a while after reading this book, but I plan to begin reading some
biographies once I feel ready for another long-form book. If you're interested
in what my reading tendencies have been, below is a link to my Goodreads
account, where every book I can recall reading and every book I intend to read
has been cataloged. It's not as organized as I would like it to be, but I think
that is a problem that will work itself out so long as my passion for reading
holds strong.

<a href="https://www.goodreads.com/user/show/171345438-zachary">My Goodreads</a>
