---
layout: post
title: Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?
description: If Blade Runner was 90% world-building...
typora-root-url: ../../
---

## Overview

_Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?_ is a dystopian sci-fi story written by 
Philip K. Dick and published in 1968. In this story, we get a glimpse of west 
coast living in a future where global nuclear war has greatly damaged all of 
Earth's Life.

Due to this damage, a significant number of animal species have become 
endangered or outright extinct. For a majority of this experience, we follow 
the daily life of one Rick Deckard, whose name will sound very familiar to 
anyone who has seen either Blade Runner or its sequel Blade Runner 2049. If you 
have seen the original Blade Runner, many of the story beats will echo as you 
get a glimpse at just how much bigger the problems have become for the 
characters.

For a book first published in 1968, at the time of this writing approaching 60 
years ago, the way the setting and technology is portrayed left a somewhat 
uncomfortable feeling in my stomach. This is because while a lot of the book 
leverages vague descriptions of mechanics, it's quite unnerving once I realized 
that by and large we are still marching towards that future today.

## When Emotions Become Television Channels

In a futuristic world where flying cars, life-like mechanical animals and 
androids so realistic they can pass as human, it comes as no surprise that 
other somewhat frightening technology will have emerged. One such innovation in 
this world is called a "mood organ". By operating this device, a user can 
stimulate their brain into just about any emotional state. A good portion of 
the first chapter explores the broad combinations of moods the device can 
stimulate.

While technology has advanced to the point where humans can selectively 
experience particular emotions, the tech of this world has advanced equally as 
far from the opposite side of the spectrum. Androids who originally could be 
picked out easily from a crowd are now borderline impossible to identify, save 
for a bone marrow analysis and the empathy test employed by the two Blade 
Runner films. However, not all is well in this world, due largely in part to 
the nuclear war that ravaged the entire planet.

As a result of the massive amounts of radiation leftover from the nuclear 
blasts, both humans and animals alike are left dealing with the repercussions. 
For man, fertility problems and mental capacity have begun to wreck the 
long-term survival of the species. While incredibly bleak, it's largely 
overshadowed by how the rest of the animal kingdom of the world.

The effects of the blasts were exponentially worse for animals at large, with 
entire species being eradicated. As a result, owning one of the few animals 
that still live is seen as a status symbol. If one cannot afford the actual 
animal, the alternative is to buy a life-like mechanical version of it instead. 
Most people in this world are encouraged to own some type of animal, as it 
increases empathy in accordance with a philosophical line of reasoning in this 
world dubbed "Mercerism".

## Mercer the Martyr

If you've played any VR game, then you're just a few steps away from 
experiencing Mercerism yourself. In this religion, participants partake in a 
collective experience. That experience is of a man named Wilbur Mercer. To 
participate, followers grip two handles of a machine called an empathy box, 
which then links every user to Wilbur Mercer as he repeats a climb to the top 
of a hill while being pelted by stones from above. Users experiencing this can 
occasionally feel the influence of other participants, and even the pain of the 
stones as they strike the character they inhabit.

This in combination with the owning of rare or exotic animals are what give the 
people of this world a sense of fulfillment and meaning.

## The Characters

The portrayal of Rick Deckard in this novel was surprisingly fresh, even though 
I had seen the character in action throughout the Blade Runner film. This is 
largely due to several big changes that the film made, likely for the sake of 
tightening up the plot to the specific story beats. I'd argue the biggest 
change and the most impactful one came in the first chapter, with the addition 
of Deckard having a wife.

By simply adding a character whose relationship to Deckard is already 
established, in addition to being privy to his behavior and emotions gave me as 
a reader an entirely new perspective to the character of Rick Deckard. It also 
re-contextualized my understanding of his character, and made me excited to 
see just how it plays into the overall narrative I expected the story to take 
based on my bias from seeing Blade Runner first.

This of course is in reference to the relationship that Deckard's character 
builds with the 