---
layout: post
title: Shin Megami Tensei and "Difficulty"
description: why-dont-you-play-a-real-shin-megoomi-tensay-game.mp4
typora-root-url: ../../
---

# Shin Megami Tensei

Since my last post, I've beaten another pair of Shin Megami Tensei (SMT) games. 
The ironic part is that while they were both "upgraded" versions of their 
respective games, one I would call the "definitive edition", and the other 
"spoils the pot". I'll get into more detail about each one in a bit. If you've 
read my previous posts about 
[Shin Megami Tensei V](https://stuckboy.netlify.app/i-beat-my-first-smt-game/)
or [Shin Megami Tensei: Nocturne](https://stuckboy.netlify.app/shin-megami-tensei-nocturne/),
you may be familiar with some of the content that will be discussed here. If 
not, nothing to fear, as I will attempt to summarize the points that matter 
most for this discussion.

### Re: The Description
In case the post description went over your head, there's a prominent meme 
video in the SMT/Persona series that you can watch 
[here](https://youtu.be/joGhroGnIc4). I do not know the circumstances that 
created this video, but if I was to hazard a guess, it was probably a 
commissioned video using a heated forum discussion post as the script.

## Atlus' Love of Definitive Editions

For those unfamiliar with Atlus' business practices regarding the Persona and 
SMT series, it's somewhat similar to how older Pokemon games would receive a 
3rd installment to a generation. Except in Atlus' case, we're no longer talking 
about $30 handheld games meant for children. These are $60 (soon to be 
permanently $70) games. The new content can vary from title to title, but very 
rarely would it warrant re-issuing a game as a completely different, 
fully-priced entry.

If you're looking to see just how egregious this practice has become, look no 
further than Persona 3: Reload (P3R). P3R is a modernization of Persona 3, a 
game that first released back in 2006. While it's fundamentally still the same 
story that Persona 3 originally told, it utilizes a lot of modern gaming 
conveniences and systems that Atlus has refined over the years.

I'll avoid going into the extraneous details of what sets P3R apart from the 
original. The point is that while this was a much-desired modernization of P3, 
it too was subject to the same nickel-and-dime practices that Atlus uses on 
their fan base. Like Atlus' previous modern releases (modern being anything 
post Persona 5), Atlus has included several DLC options for people to purchase. 
Many of them are simply costumes that reference their other titles, others are 
music from those previously mentioned games. However, Persona 5 also included 
several DLC options for in-game resources that offered significant advantages 
when compared to the strength progression the game originally intended. These 
offered a simpler way to play the game while still experiencing the story. 
While most would probably avoid using these game-breaking advantages, it still 
remained an option for those who wanted it. This is all a long winded way to 
say that while the DLC offered some bonuses, it wasn't necessary to experience 
the complete version of the story that the base game includes. This changed 
with P3R.

Once again Atlus listed multiple DLC for people to purchase independently, 
again in the same flavor of costumes, alternative BGMs and Persona recolors. 
However, they also included an Expansion Pass for the game. If you've been 
around since the PS3/Xbox 360 era, your first assumption would likely be that 
all the DLC I've mentioned previously can be acquired simultaneously through 
this pass. That is incorrect. In fact, **nothing** in the expansion pass can be 
bought individually. Why then would you want to purchase this content that uses 
the term "expansion pass" so liberally? It's for Episode Aigis, a 30 hour story 
expansion that immediately follows the end of P3R.

Episode Aigis was effectively another evolution in a long line of developmental 
practices that Atlus has chosen get as much return on each product as possible. 
Having yet to experience this content, I do not have a solid opinion whether 
not purchasing the DLC is in fact losing out on significant content. It can't 
be understated that Atlus' JRPG titles can easily occupy 60-100+ hours of time 
when enjoying them at a leisurely pace. If/When I finally get around to playing 
this game, I'll be sure to include my thoughts on the complete product.

Regardless of the optics that such business practices garner for Atlus, the 
primary issue I take with them is the wild variance that their definitive 
editions provide. Sometimes the extra content is just that, extra content that 
players can choose whether to engage with. However, these "enhanced" versions 
often carry with them additional mechanics or even artistic modifications. The 
worst offender of all might not even be a change that happens within the game, 
but the cadence at which these releases were so predictable. Persona 5 finally 
released after years of no new games, and sure enough the enhanced edition 
rolled out just a couple of years later. Atlus understands this, and have 
effectively managed to capitalize on FOMO as their primary business model for 
the better part of two decades.

As gaming shifts even more away from platform exclusives and becomes more 
comfortable with simultaneous releases, we'll hopefully see a revision in their 
business model. Until then, there has only been one game in Atlus' catalog that 
I considered worth the price of admission. That game was SMT V: Vengeance. 

## SMT V and SMT V:V (Now with double the V!)

_Shin Megami Tensei V: Vengeance_ (SMTV:V) is the latest release for Atlus in 
their _Shin Megami Tensei_ series. It is an enhanced port of SMT V, which first 
released in 2021 for the Nintendo Switch. During my playthrough, I could tell 
that while I absolutely loved the mechanics present, the story felt cobbled 
together toward the end, and the visuals were "good enough".

My biggest reason for being excited for SMTV:V was the new story teased during 
the initial reveal. If it could refine the bits I took issue with and explore 
some of the concepts that were left out due to crunch, I thought it could 
elevate the game to heights that would rival Nocturne. While the new story was 
interesting, it only felt like a marginal improvement to the narrative that the 
base game offered. Rather than expand upon the previous story, SMTV:V decided 
to instead explore a parallel story that uses much of the same cast. This story 
challenges more of the characters perspectives, and slightly alters the 
situations they encounter.

While this means that overall the amount of new story is larger, it also meant 
that the original story is left entirely as it was, rough edges and all. The 
new story also takes a good while before it fully diverges from the original, 
likely in an attempt to reuse as many assets as possible to save time. An 
added benefit of splitting the stories like so means that a player can 
effectively play the game twice and experience two unique stories. Design 
choices seemed to take this into account, as some items received during the 
game seemed unique to their respective storylines. I have yet to play the 
original story in my copy of SMTV:V, but I hope that the mechanics added are 
still present there.

SMT V was another title to use Atlus' much loved Press-Turn System, which 
awarded experimentation with enemy weakness and planning around them for 
maximum rewards. SMT V added onto this by including a system similar to limit 
breaks from the Final Fantasy series. By simply participating in combat, you 
would slowly accumulate a resource that could be spent to perform a variety of 
actions, depending on the demons you had present. This allowed combat to have a 
kind of "momentum" to it, where you might need to adjust strategies for enemies 
that are about to use theirs, or prepping your party for when yours fully 
charges in a couple turns. Unfortunately, the initial skill you start out with 
is incredibly versatile, and I wouldn't be surprised if most people just stuck 
with that their entire playthrough (I know I did).

To combat this, SMTV:V adjusts the overall potency of this ability to be not as 
game-defining as it once was. I began experimenting more with the types 
available to me and it added another facet of planning to my team composition 
throughout my journey. The most interesting aspect of them was the few unique 
abilities that could only be activated if prerequisites were met. This usually 
meant having either demons of the same family or demons related through their 
lore present simultaneously before activation. While this might seem like a 
headache initially, the abilities more than make up for it, as they usually 
grant massive benefits for the investment required. To further deepen the 
synergy that demon families possessed, SMTV:V also added an innate skill to 
every demon.

If you've ever experienced a Pokemon game from Gen 3 onward, you can compare 
the innate skills of demons to the abilities that Pokemon have. For no 
additional cost to you, demons can confer many types of passive bonuses simply 
for planning around their presence. While they're no doubt beneficial, it's not 
something one should sacrifice other parts of their team composition to 
utilize. For example, the demons referred to as the 
[Four Heavenly Kings](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Four_Heavenly_Kings) all 
have an innate skill aptly named "Four Heavenly Kings". By having one or more 
present on the battlefield and summoning another from your stock, each one that 
was already in battle gains massive buffs from the action. As another example, 
you might want assistance with conversing with demons. By simply having a Pixie 
or a Succubus present, they can either guarantee a desired outcome or reset the 
conversation so you can continue the conversation towards your goal. It's 
always good to examine what innate skills demons possess to determine if you're 
able to apply them to your current situation.

Overall, SMTV:V provides a great experience to both newcomers and veterans of 
the series. For the price of admission, you effectively get two 60-100 hour 
storylines. While I still wished the stories themselves were a bit more focused 
or explored other concepts, they're a great way to experience what Shin Megami 
Tensei has to offer without asking you to climb a mountain from the very
beginning. For that type of experience, look no further than the other SMT game 
I've finished so far this year, _Shin Megami Tensei: Strange Journey Redux_.

## Strange Journey vs. Redux

_Shin Megami Tensei: Strange Journey_ (SMT:SJ) first released in North America 
on March 23rd, 2010. It was one of only a handful of games to receive an M 
rating on the Nintendo DS. The protagonist in this story is a hired soldier who 
is assigned to assist an investigation team attempting to reach the center of a 
phenomenon that appeared in Antarctica dubbed the "Schwarzwelt". Once inside, 
they realize that they are surrounded by demons and cut off from the rest of 
the world. Now, they must fight for their lives as they try to solve the 
mystery and save humanity. On the hole, Strange Journey puts a whole new spin 
on the SMT formula, from the more science-fiction aesthetic to the usage of an 
entirely adult cast.

Without a doubt, it's the darkest SMT game that I've experienced so far. The 
cast is also significantly larger than any other SMT game I've played so far, 
as you frequently hear from over half a dozen characters regarding the 
developments as they occur in the game.

Before I started playing games in the SMT series, I was very confused about 
what exactly people meant by a "real Shin Megami Tensei game". Now that I've 
experienced quite a few of them, I think I have a rough idea of what they mean, 
and will be exploring that below.

Essentially, SMT games focus on three aspects that appear across every game in 
the franchise. These include:

1. Combat
2. Exploration
3. Choice

Until the Press-Turn system was created, combat in SMT games followed the same 
type of turn-based design that other JRPGs follow. Turn order is determined by 
speed, and status affects can require adaptations during the fight.

### C-C-C-Combat

Combat in Strange Journey is somewhat similar to other SMT titles, but the 
Press-Turn system is intentionally not present in this entry. Instead, 
exploiting an enemy's weakness rewards the player with follow-up attacks from 
other members of your party. The major caveat to this system is that the 
follow-up attacks can only occur from teammates that share your alignment, 
whether that's Law, Chaos or Neutral. In general, Strange Journey seems to put 
a lot more focus on your alignment based on your actions, which can be 
determined at all times by the color of your character's name throughout the 
game.

As you recruit demons and fight them in combat, you'll accumulate a resource 
called "analysis" for them. This represents your understanding of that 
creature, and it also confers benefits to you mechanically. Demons with an 
analysis level of 1 can be identified visually, something you will not have the 
first time you encounter a brand new demon. Level 2 allows you to identify what 
the enemy is weak to, and can now plan for how to best handle them. Level 3 is 
the final tier, in which all information is now available for viewing. If you 
happen to possess a demon that reached level 3, they'll also grant you a 
consumable resource known as a "Source".

Sources are essentially a "copy" of the demon's data, where that data is 
several skills that are always present for that demon's source, in addition to 
potentially containing a skill they learned throughout their life. The purpose 
of these sources is to guarantee certain skills are passed on to other demon's 
as you fuse them to either create new demons or a stronger version of the 
current one. While you can technically re-earn sources from demons, it's 
honestly not worth the effort, as you will have to do tons of grinding just to 
earn it again. The better option would be to either fuse new demons that also 
possess those skills, or go exploring and attempt to recruit a new demon. 
Speaking of places to explore, let's talk about the absolute units that are the 
dungeons in this game.

### We Gotta Go Bigger

Before we delve into the dungeons of SMT:SJ and SMT:SJR, let's first talk a 
little bit about where SMT dungeons got their start, and how they evolved and 
changed to become the dungeons that can be encountered in these games. 
Exploration in SMT games got their humble beginnings as first person dungeon 
crawlers. These dungeons typically have a central theme, with different types 
of enemies present between them. However, calling these areas "dungeon" might 
be underselling their complexity a bit. For comparison, let's look at the 
biggest underground area that you can explore in "The Elder Scrolls: Skyrim" 
called Blackreach.

<img src="/assets/images/blackreach.jpg" alt="Map of Blackreach" title="Blackreach" width="600"/>

If you've never experienced the complexity of this area, it can be hard to 
describe just through words. Typically a player would end up here after 
navigating a previous underground section that just so happens to connect to it.
Thinking back to my last playthrough of Skyrim, this area is easily the biggest 
underground cavern I can recall, and navigating it can be somewhat of a pain, 
as you can only see small sections of it at a time through your map. The image 
above has made its best attempt to stitch each section together into one 
cohesive image.

Now here's an image of the 1st floor of the 5th dungeon in Strange Journey, 
Eridanus.

<img src="/assets/images/Eridanus.png" alt="Map of Eridanus 1F" title="Eridanus" width="600"/>

The legend on the right-hand side describes the various symbols present on the 
map. This labyrinth is 4 floors of winding hallways, one-way doors and hordes 
of enemies seeking to ruin your dungeon-crawling adventure. Before the PS2 era, 
all SMT games featured convoluted dungeons to navigate. By designing dungeons 
this way, it ensured players would not be able to complete each game faster 
than they could create the next one. This began changing in Nocturne and 
Persona 3, as their 3rd person perspective meant that dungeons had to be easier 
to navigate without causing players to become lost. Shin Megami Tensei: Strange 
Journey (SMT:SJ) and the Redux 3DS port (SMT:SJR) revisit this first-person 
perspective with more modern takes on mechanics.

There are over half a dozen dungeons to explore in Strange Journey and Redux, 
each of which build off the mechanics taught by the previous ones, in addition 
to adding another facet to the challenges you'll face for subsequent ones. The 
second image I presented above, Eridanus, is the poster child for the types of 
dungeons you'll encounter throughout Strange Journey. Like the preceding 
dungeons, it asks you to recall mechanics you've interacted with thus far, such 
as one-way doors and river tiles. On top of this, it presents several sections 
where great care must be taken to recall where you've already visited, lest you 
be trapped wandering through a warp puzzle for quite some time.

If you plan on mindlessly navigating the dungeon in hopes that you'll 
eventually stumble forward, I'd highly recommend against that. In fact, taking 
the time to plan out your moves or even tracking them on paper is much more 
rewarding. There aren't many games anymore where making a physical map on graph 
paper is a thing, put it certainly helps in epic dungeon crawlers like this and 
earlier SMT titles.

While navigating each labyrinth, you may encounter situations where the 
character is asked to make a decision based on the current predicament. This is 
where the final design pillar of SMT comes to life, moral choices.

### Many Moral Dilemmas

Overall, I'd say that Strange Journey's main appeal is the cast you interact 
with, combined with the characters that serve as the "representative" of their 
respective beliefs. Since every character is an adult in this situation, each 
one vehemently sticks to their beliefs, and you can tell that their previous 
experiences in life drive those decisions.

Aside from the complex dungeons and the myriad of characters, the last major 
aspect of Strange Journey in my opinion is the difficulty. For newcomers to the 
series, Strange Journey is *absolutely not* an easy entry. Creating demons that 
can effectively deal with situations can take a lot of preparation, money can 
be scarce for a good portion of the game, preventing easy stockpiling of 
support items and healing, and the later bosses can easily require full team 
rebuilds to overcome them.

### What Does "Redux" Mean?

"Shin Megami Tensei: Strange Journey Redux" is a 3DS port of the original game 
that released in North America on May 15, 2018. This version included Japanese 
voice acting, a portrait for every crew member outside the main cast, a whole 
new dungeon, and three new endings to the game. On the whole it seems like 
upgrades all around. However, while some may consider these "enhancements", 
players who liked the first game may see them as "downgrades". We'll be 
exploring a few of the changes and how much they affect the experience overall.

#### The Pictures Are Talking

One of the more prominent changes made to SMT:SJR is the inclusion of voice 
acting for the entire game. The only drawback, if you can call it one, is that 
the only language option available is Japanese. If you have issues with reading 
the text versus hearing it spoken in another language, you can always lower the 
voice volume to counteract it. I'll always be curious as to the decision behind 
only having one type of language present. Was it to conserve space? Did they 
feel like an English voice cast was unnecessary? Either way, the changes go 
beyond just the sounds you hear throughout the game, each voiced cast member 
gets their own full-sized portrait with a unique design.

#### "Enhance Image"

Alongside the added voice acting, the revamped visuals will also stand out to 
you, assuming you've played the original game or have seen images of what 
characters were like back then. For comparison's sake, I've included both 
versions of Commander Gore's full body portrait. He's one of the first 
characters you'll encounter in either version, and he serves as a great A/B 
comparison of just how much the visuals were changed for the newer edition.

<img src="/assets/images/gore-sj.webp" alt="Image of Commander Gore" title="Commander Gore" width="325"/>
<img src="/assets/images/gore-sjr.webp" alt="Image of Commander Gore (SJR)" title="Commander Gore (SJR)" width="325"/>

If I were to try and summarize the changes in a succinct way, it's like 
comparing matte to glossy paint. No doubt this was to modernize the art style 
to bring it closer to art they've used in other projects at the time. At first 
I didn't really have much of an opinion on the newer art, but over time it's 
slowly become more of an issue for me. The easiest way to explain my issue is 
with the suit that is shown in both images, which in-game is referred to as a 
"Demonica". It's a cutting edge suit designed to protect against extreme
environments and hazards. In the original, the suit's texture appears to be 
similar to kevlar. That could just be the general art style playing into that, 
but when looking at the modern suit it just looks like spandex. The colors are 
almost flat, with only shadows to really make a distinction in the pattern. 
These changes are prevalent anywhere a full portrait is shown on screen. Due to 
the original design of the game, it largely relies on sprite-based art and 
imagery, so the fully waxed style is only present if you're in an active 
conversation. Shifting topics to focus on something more closely related to the 
core aspects that make an SMT game, let's look at the newest dungeon added as 
part of SMT:SJR.

#### We Have Labyrinth of Amala at Home

For anyone familiar with SMT Nocturne, you may recall a dungeon that you popped 
into for a short while early on in the story called the "Labyrinth of Amala". 
This dungeon was not present in the first release of Nocturne, but was present 
in the North American release. This dungeon is structured in such a way that 
progress is only possible up until the next locked door. To unlock said door, a 
certain amount of progress is required in the main story. Otherwise, you may be 
able to get access to incredibly powerful items and demons before you're 
expected to have them.

By structuring it to stay in lock-step with the main plot, you're incentivized 
to revisit it at your leisure and progress until you're ready to resume the 
main plot. It's a decent strategy by developers to ensure that even if you've 
played the base game before, there's always a driving motivator to continue 
progression in order to see more of the new content. Since there aren't a lot 
of navigational skills granted to you during the campaign, progression is 
locked behind increasingly difficult bosses known as Fiends.

SJR follows this exact same formula, except this time the additional dungeon is 
dubbed as "The Womb of Grief". Once again, you're introduced to its existence 
very early on in the story, which is where you'll learn of its purpose and how 
its depths will gradually become available as you continue to progress in the 
main story. Unlike Nocturne, SJR contains numerous navigational skills, each of 
which is slowly granted to you as you progress through the game's original 
dungeons. This means that as you obtain new ones, you can decide at whatever 
pace you're comfortable with how you wish to tackle the Womb of Grief.

For my playthrough, I tended to wait until two or more progression items were 
granted to me before trying to progress, but it might be more beneficial to 
revisit it as you obtain each one. Navigating the Womb of Grief can be quite a 
difficult task, and can also take a fair bit of time to do so. Like Nocturne, 
each level requires you to defeat a boss in order to progress, only this time 
the bosses are localized to each layer of the Womb of Grief.

#### The Last Straw

This section will get around to the elephant in the room, and is usually the 
number one gripe that a lot of players have with Redux over the original 
release. In this particular instance, the elephant's name is Alex.

Another new addition to Redux alongside the Womb of Grief is a brand new 
character named Alex, who shows up at the beginning of the second dungeon to 
completely waste you with zero effort. This serves as both her character 
introduction in addition to introducing the Womb of Grief to the player. 
Obviously the meeting doesn't permanently kill you, but it does quite a bit to 
set up initial impressions of her to the player. This initial interaction is 
not optional, and that point alone is why a lot of people feel that Redux 
detracts from the setting of the original.

By continuing to introduce new characters to the player, SMT:SJR begins 
detracting from the original feelings caused by the setting. This is of course 
the oppressive loneliness that permeates the crew as they attempt to navigate 
this unknown world without outside help for a good portion of the game. While 
it shares many similarities with the Labyrinth of Amala, the execution of it 
feels incredibly forced upon the player. Especially unlike Nocturne's additions 
of the Fiends and the Labyrinth, ignoring the additions past their initial 
introduction is not the last time you'll hear of either.

If you chose to ignore the Womb of Grief, you can largely have the same 
experience that a player of the original Strange Journey would. That is, right 
up until you think you've finished the game. It's at this point that Alex 
forces her way back into the plot, and also grants you the honor of a surprise 
boss fight. This fight comes right on the heels of the original final boss, 
meaning that you're also likely limping back to the ship and entirely out of 
resources. This continued forcing of the new character and story onto the 
player is by and large the biggest culprit of why people will continue to say 
that Redux is not the best way to experience the story or setting of _Strange 
Journey_.

On top of that shit sundae, another problem begins to emerge if you decided 
that you want to play Redux over the original, the pacing. For the most part, 
you can get through the game by simply focusing on the main story and side 
quests available to you. However, it might begin to become apparent that as you 
progress through the primary dungeons that enemies begin to absolutely floor 
you unless you get the most basic of encounters. From a game design 
perspective, this is usually a big signal to the player that they're attempting 
to progress too quickly, and may have missed things to do along the way that 
would ensure they are ready to take on the newest area.

If you haven't put it together by now, these points are when the game expects 
you to return to the Womb of Grief and complete the newest sections available 
to you. These sections include demon encounters not typically available to you 
in the game, in addition to bosses (and their experience points). Lastly, 
there's another wrinkle to adding all this additional content that at the very 
least isn't as prominent as the aforementioned area or character, brand new 
endings.

If you decide to completely finish the Womb of Grief prior to beating the final 
boss, you're rewarded with an entirely new ending, which again will depend on 
your final alignment. If you're a fan of doing additional content but still 
wanted to see one of the original endings, I'm sorry to say that unless you 
kept a backup save prior to finishing the Womb, you're either doomed to replay 
the game in its entirety or watching your desired ending online. In my 
playthrough I avoided this fate, but I figured it was important enough to 
warrant mentioning.

At the end of the day, I'm still glad that I played Strange Journey, even if it 
was technically in the flawed form that a lot of people dislike. Hopefully my 
warnings can help you decide whether you want to play the original as intended 
or the "enhanced" version. Regardless of which you play, I'd still recommend 
experiencing the story in some way, shape or form. It's quite a standout from 
the rest of the SMT titles even today. Unfortunately, regardless of the way 
that you choose to play this title, obtaining an official copy is now 
incredibly difficult due to the discontinuation of the 3DS eShop.

## Leaving Money on the Table

Even with all of the massive Atlus titles becoming even more available on 
modern platforms, such as P3R, P4G, P5R and SMT5, there is still an incredible 
amount of games in Atlus' catalog that are simply just lost media at this 
point. For some people this might not be a concern, but for people like me that 
prefer to experience the old and the new, it certainly throws a wrench into 
things. I've compiled a short list below of every game Atlus has effectively 
abandoned. It includes the last platform they were widely available on, and 
when that was. My hopes is that Atlus sees potential in doing a anthology
collection much like Capcom and other companies have seen success in.

### Entries are ordered from oldest abandoned title to most recent

- Digital Devil Story: Megami Tensei (1995 - Super Famicom)
- Digital Devil Story: Megami Tensei II (1995 - Super Famicom)
- Shin Megami Tensei: Nine (2002 - Xbox)
- Shin Megami Tensei: Devil Summoner (2005 - PSP)
- Shin Megami Tensei: Digital Devil Saga (2006 - PS2)
- Devil Summoner: Raidou Kuzunoha vs. the Soulless Army (2007 - PS2)
- Shin Megami Tensei: Digital Devil Saga 2 (2007 - PS2)
- Devil Summoner 2: Raidou Kuzunoha vs. King Abaddon (2009 - PS2)
- Persona 1 (2010 - PSP)
- Persona 2: Innocent Sin (2011 - PSP)
- Shin Megami Tensei (2012 - iOS/Android)
- Shin Megami Tensei II (2012 - iOS/Android)
- Shin Megami Tensei: If... (2013 - iOS)
- Devil Summoner: Soul Hackers (2013 - 3DS)
- Shin Megami Tensei IV (2013 - 3DS)
- Shin Megami Tensei: Devil Survivor (2013 - 3DS)
- Shin Megami Tensei: Devil Survivor 2 (2013 - 3DS)
- Persona Q: Shadow of the Labyrinth (2014 - 3DS)
- Shin Megami Tensei IV: Apocalypse (2016 - 3DS)
- Shin Megami Tensei: Strange Journey Redux (2017 - 3DS)
- Persona Q2: New Cinema Labyrinth (2019 - 3DS)
