--
layout: post
title: Shin Megami Tensei: Nocturne
description: Thank you _Shin Megami Tensei: Nocturne_!
typora-root-url: ../../
---

## This Ain't Your Dad's Pokemon

_Shin Megami Tensei: Nocturne_ was first released in North America on October 
12th, 2004. However, this version was not the original version that was first 
released in Japan on February 20th, 2003. North America received a slightly 
updated version of _Shin Megami Tensei: Nocturne_ (from this point on referred 
to as just _Nocturne_). The equivalent version to this in Japan would be the 
"Maniax" version.

In this Maniax version, some cut content was added back in, alongside some 
extra features. This includes a completely new ending obtainable after 
completing an additional dungeon. The most memorable change in this version 
overshadows this though; the addition Dante from the _Devil May Cry_ series. 
For Maniax, Dante replaces all instances of Raidou Kuzunoha, although they 
largely serve the same role in the game.

Regardless of the version you play, you'll be exploring the Vortex World with 
your companions of demons throughout the course of the game. During this time, 
you'll learn about the ideologies that the various characters you meet hold, 
and what they would do if given the chance to remake the world in the way they 
deem "correct".

### Satanic Panic

Now if that last bit was a surprise, I'll attempt to give some background as to 
what exactly the _Shin Megami Tensei_ series is. Most games alter the gameplay 
formula at least a little bit, but quite a lot remains the same between entries.

First and foremost, the main appeal of the SMT series is the ability to recruit 
various creatures and deities from a large swathe of religions. In this game, 
regardless of the historical or cultural background, these companions are 
called "demons".

Each demon possesses innate strengths and weaknesses to different types of 
skills. Some demons are better suited to wind skills while others are better 
for buffing or debuffing other demons. It's a unique spin on the typical roles 
in a JPRG mixed with the type matchups of Pokemon.

Speaking of Pokemon, you may be old enough to remember the moral panic that 
swept the United States called "satanic panic" that was largely the focus of 
mass media between the 1980s and late 1990s. In fact, Pokemon was one of the 
franchises to receive a lot of criticism for its gameplay and premise. Dungeons 
& Dragons also received a lot of heat for its ability to allow players to 
interact in a fantasy world where they could wield dark powers and do whatever 
their heart desired.

Having played a few _Shin Megami Tensei_ titles at this point, it probably was 
very smart to not localize this series until _Nocturne_, as any earlier would 
have likely convinced Atlus that further localization should be avoided to not 
garner outrage from anyone. If Pokemon's main focus of garnering friendship 
between colorful creatures and attempting to improve oneself warranted that 
much outrage, a game about literally recruiting and fusing demons would have 
had people calling for outlawing of Atlus games.

## Differences from SMT V
	1. Moon Phase importance
	2. Clunky UI
	3. Pen and Paper Maps

## The Importance of Preservation
	1. "Remastered"
	2. Not-So-Insignificant Improvements

## Peak Complexity and Obtuseness
	1. Speech Skills
	2. Utility Demons
	3. More Pen and Paper

## What's Next
	1. SJR
	2. SMT IV
	3. Hope for a true remaster