--
layout: post
title: Shin Megami Tensei: Nocturne
description: Thank you _Shin Megami Tensei: Nocturne_!
typora-root-url: ../../
---

## This Ain't Your Dad's Pokemon

_Shin Megami Tensei: Nocturne_ was first released in North America on October 
12th, 2004. However, this version was not the original version. By that point, 
Nocturne had been available in Japan for almost two years, as their street date 
was February 20th, 2003. North America received a slightly updated version of 
_Shin Megami Tensei: Nocturne_ (from this point on referred to as just 
_Nocturne_). The equivalent version to this in Japan would be the "Maniax" 
version.

In this Maniax version, some cut content was added back in, alongside some 
extra features. This includes a completely new ending obtainable after 
completing an additional dungeon. The most memorable change in this version 
overshadows this though; the addition of Dante from the _Devil May Cry_ series. 
For Maniax, Dante replaces all instances of Raidou Kuzunoha, although they 
largely serve the same role in the game.

Regardless of the version you play, you'll be exploring the Vortex World with 
your companions of demons throughout the course of the game. During this time, 
you'll learn about the ideologies that the various characters you meet hold, 
and what they would do if given the chance to remake the world in the way they 
deem "correct".

### Satanic Panic

Now if that last bit was a surprise, I'll attempt to give some background as to 
what exactly the _Shin Megami Tensei_ series is. Most games alter the gameplay 
formula at least a little bit, but quite a lot remains the same between entries.

First and foremost, the main appeal of the SMT series is the ability to recruit 
various creatures and deities from a large swathe of religions. In this game, 
regardless of the historical or cultural background, these companions are 
called "demons".

Each demon possesses innate strengths and weaknesses to different types of 
skills. Some demons are better suited to wind skills while others are better 
for buffing or debuffing other demons. It's a unique spin on the typical roles 
in a JPRG mixed with the type matchups of Pokemon.

Speaking of Pokemon, you may be old enough to remember the moral panic that 
swept the United States called "satanic panic" that was largely the focus of 
mass media between the 1980s and late 1990s. In fact, Pokemon was one of the 
franchises to receive a lot of criticism for its gameplay and premise. Dungeons 
& Dragons also received a lot of heat for its ability to allow players to 
interact in a fantasy world where they could wield dark powers and do whatever 
their heart desired.

Having played a couple _Shin Megami Tensei_ titles at this point, it probably 
was very smart to not localize this series until _Nocturne_. If it had released 
any earlier, the reception would have likely convinced Atlus that further 
localization should be avoided to not garner outrage from anyone. If Pokemon's 
main focus of garnering friendship between colorful creatures and attempting to 
improve oneself warranted that much outrage, a game about literally recruiting 
and fusing demons would have had people calling for outlawing of Atlus games.

## Differences from SMT V

Having began my journey through the SMT series with the very latest entry, at 
times I did find myself missing some of the more streamlined mechanics and 
reduced tedium that a newer game in the franchise could provide. On the other 
hand, as my play time increased, and my familiarity with the game improved, I 
also began to realize just how many unique mechanics _Nocturne_ had that SMT V 
_didn't_.

### Gru-The-Moon.mp4

A common mechanic that has been present in every SMT game I've played thus far 
is the inclusion of a meter that tracks the current moon phase. There are 9 
phases the moon transitions between, which advance steadily as you navigate 
areas within the game. The Moon phases begins with a New Moon (0/8), working up 
to a Half Moon (4/8), peaking at a Full Moon (8/8), and then reversing the 
phases until a New Moon is reached once again.

I was aware of this mechanic in SMT V, but in all honesty there was practically 
no reason for me to care about what state the moon was in during any segment of 
my playthrough. I knew that there were certain effects that specific Moon 
phases had on a couple of things, like making certain demon negotiations 
easier, but I never really took advantage of that mechanic in the game.

In contrast, while playing _Nocturne_ I was almost _constantly_ aware of what 
my current Moon Phase was and whether it was ascending or descending in its 
cycle. Not only do demon negotiations improve during a Full Moon, but 
conversation with certain types of demons _aren't even possible_ unless it is 
the correct Moon. While initially awkward to incorporate into my planning, I 
began to get a feeling of satisfaction whenever I was able to utilize it to my 
advantage. It honestly made me rethink my experience with moon phases in SMT V, 
and how it could have added another layer to the experience. Unfortunately, not 
every additional layer of mechanics was appreciated during my _Nocturne_ 
playthrough.

### How do I get to that screen again?

A big initial hurdle to me enjoying this game was internalizing the individual 
menus in the game and how to find the information I was looking for. Stat menus 
for party members had a dedicated screen, and there was only one specific 
option within the menu to view those stats. While this screen listed both stats 
and moves, if you needed to recall what a particular move did, you would be 
forced to yet again back out of the menus and select an entirely separate 
option.

If you're familiar with how most JRPG party screens are laid out these days, 
one would expect to see a button within the stats screen to navigate the skills.
This is a luxury _Nocturne_ lacks. In addition to the clunky party UI, there 
were several other menus that seemed to either not present every piece of 
information I would hope to see there, or that entire menu options were effectively redundant.

The most glaring of redundant menus was within healing rooms, where an NPC can 
restore your party's HP and Magic for a price. In this room, there is an 
additional menu option to specifically revive fallen party members. I did not 
select this option _at all_ during my entire playthrough, as the default 
healing option revived downed party members anyway. Whether this convenience 
was included as part of the HD Remaster or if it was always that way I'm 
unsure. I've learned since finishing my playthrough of _Nocturne_ that quite a 
bit of this game came together in a very short window of time, so I'm fine with 
giving a pass to this shortcoming of the game. This is a lot easier for me to 
do when there are points in the game that definitely should have gotten more 
attention in the design department.

### Grab Your Pen and Graph Paper

While _Nocturne_ is certainly more modern than a lot of the older titles Atlus 
has released for the series, it honestly shares a lot more with those older 
titles than it does with its newer ones. The most obvious form this takes is in 
the labyrinthine locations that will occupy a majority of your playthrough. 
Early dungeons do not lean into this design heavily, but by the end you should 
not feel ashamed for pulling out a pencil and some graph paper to take notes on 
where you've been and what mechanics the dungeon is trying to teach you.

The biggest shock to me was learning that although I began to hate these types 
of dungeons towards the end, earlier entries for SMT were _even worse_. While I 
consider the combat of SMT games to be the primary reason I enjoy playing them, 
that enjoyment quickly waned after nearly a hundred encounters in the same 
dungeon due to a combination of backtracking and re-entering to stock up and 
heal before the push to the boss. I get that a game needs to sometimes leverage 
less than ideal game design to guarantee extra playtime or allow for optimal 
leveling, but it felt like that became the default goal of every late game 
dungeon.

Without this additional padding and an easier way to earn experience, this game 
might honestly be a dozen or more hours shorter. I know that a specific goal of 
playing JRPGs is a slowly building story with lots of developments, but I also 
believe a game whose mechanics and experience are tighter from start to finish 
can be as equally important. Ultimately, were it not for the ability to play 
this game on modern hardware with some additional quality of life changes, I 
might never had gotten around to playing this absolute gem of a game.

## The Importance of Preservation

An interesting part about growing older in the gaming space is seeing games you 
praised during your childhood receives middling sequels, brand bait with zero 
substance, and eventually independent derivative works that recapture the spark 
the original possessed. Rarely, you get to see a long lost game re-enter the 
modern gaming landscape directly from its creators in the form of a remake or 
remaster.

In _Nocturne_'s case, it received an "HD Remaster" in 2021; this is the version 
I played, and as such my biases formed based upon it. For the most part, it is 
a faithful port of the "Maniax" version with some slight alterations. For 
people who knew about _Nocturne_'s difficulty but still wanted to experience 
the story, Atlus introduced a "Merciful" difficulty setting. There even was DLC 
offered to replace appearances of Dante with Raidou, allowing players to 
experienced a mixed version of the original game and the Maniax edition. 
Unfortunately, it was past this point in the revisions that most people began 
to take issue with this port of the game.

When people saw the title included the words "HD Remaster", it left much to 
interpretation as to how much was made "HD" in the game. As people got a chance 
to play it, the extent of the improvements were quickly realized. The game 
itself was capable of running at much higher resolutions than before. The 
cutscenes, however, were a different story. To my untrained eye, they were 
effectively unaltered, playing at the same resolution that someone first 
experiencing this game in 2004 would have. The audio had an unfortunately 
similar story. Battle themes sounded like the result of recording a song off 
the radio to use as your ringtone. Not all was lost though, as fans were to 
mitigate these issues for the PC release. Mods to upscale the cutscenes and 
mods to add higher quality music allowed for some of these problems to be 
remedied.

While this rectifies some of the more glaring issues with the HD Remaster, it 
cannot affect the versions of the remaster released for the PlayStation 4 or 
Nintendo Switch. Those versions will be forever marred by the horribly 
compressed music and rough cutscenes until those consoles are eventually deemed 
obsolete, and their digital stores closed. To cap off what can only be 
described as a minimal effort cash grab capitalizing on the release of SMT V, 
the HD Remaster of _Nocturne_ is listed on the previously mentioned digital 
storefronts for $50 USD when not on sale.

Overall, the HD Remaster occupies a weird space in the franchise, with it 
obviously being an overpriced product of its time, while offering minimal 
enhancements to justify the cost. Some additional changes were released after 
the launch of the remaster, the most important of which adds the ability to 
directly control Skills inherited when performing Demon fusion. There are 
additional changes beyond that, but nothing as significant in my opinion.

In my personal opinion, the HD remaster is still the best way to easily 
experience this JRPG classic. If possible, try to wait for a sale that makes 
the price much more bearable, and gives you the chance to purchase some of the 
extra goodies offered through the DLC. If you can't wait that long, then by all 
means head on down to a retro gaming shop and see if you can't find the game 
there.

## What's Next

My journey through the Shin Megami Tensei series is still largely in its 
infancy, with only two games completely finished. With so many left to try, the 
choice of what to play next was honestly quite difficult. I decided that my 
next couple games should dabble in the handheld options available, so my next 
challenge will be playing through Strange Journey Redux, shortly followed by 
SMT IV. I know next to nothing about Strange Journey or the Redux version that 
the 3DS received besides that it is more science-fiction based. That alone has 
me very motivated to find out just why it's one that is highly recommended by 
people in the community.
